Document CoreCLR runtime provider events (#20817)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/diagnostics/runtime-contention-events.md

---
title: "Monitor lock contention runtime events"
description: See ETW events that collect information specific to the monitor lock contentions.

> ms.date: "09/27/2020"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: "11/13/2020"
```

---
title: "Monitor lock contention runtime events"
description: See ETW events that collect information specific to the monitor lock contentions.
ms.date: "09/27/2020"
ms.topic: reference
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "monitor lock contention events" [.NET Core]"
  - "ETW, EventPipe, LTTng contention events (CoreCLR)"
---

# .NET runtime contention events

These runtime events capture information about monitor lock contentions such as with `Monitor.Enter` or the C# lock keyword. For more information about how to use these events for diagnostic purposes, see [logging and tracing .NET applications](../../core/diagnostics/logging-tracing.md)

## ContentionStart_V1 event

> This event is emitted at the start of a managed thread contention.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This event is emitted at the start of a monitor lock contention.
```

There are a few more references to "managed thread contention" that could also be updated
